ey.com, 
Top 10 risks for telecommunications in 2023
The CEO Imperative: Prepare now for the new era of globalization
Can decentralized energy get good enough, fast enough?
  Select your location  Close country language switcher 
 No search results have been found 
EY Americas Digital and Financial Services Cloud Leader
Technology Transformation and Cloud leader. Over 25 years of experience in the financial services industry. Expertise in business-led, technology-enabled transformation. 
Managing Director, Financial Services, Ernst & Young LLP
Over 20 years of experience advising financial institutions. Leads their technology assessment, risk identification and mitigation planning for large transformations. 
COVID-19 has exposed systematic shortcomings in the ability of legacy command centers and control systems to support business continuity efforts of financial institutions (FIs) during times of crisis. Not only have many failed to meet basic business and technology needs, they also were built on the assumption that key IT staff members can be physically brought together to manage the response. What if the nature of the crisis prevents you from gathering in the same location or physical gathering at all?
Many of the systems used by institutions today were evolved in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. These systems must modernize again to meet today’s business and technology needs of unprecedented scale and speed, not just to keep the enterprise running but also to come out of the crisis more resilient than before. In addition, FIs must also deal with evolving regulatory pressure to demonstrate control over their increasing business, cyber and technology risks.
The virtual command center (VCC) is an operational concept that builds upon a mature IT service operations state, integrating it with an immersive interaction layer to stand up and run a fully functional remote alternative to the traditional brick-and-mortar facilities.
The VCC represents a significant paradigm shift in crisis management whose time has come. The form and function of command centers must catch up with modern-day technological realities and provide an immersive experience that drives innovative collaboration when it matters most.
The response to COVID-19 has highlighted the need for financial institutions to create a new, more agile crisis management solution.
Even before COVID-19, the need to boost command center resiliency had become a point of emphasis. The movement of critical business functions (CBFs) and their supporting infrastructure to the public cloud has had institutions looking to modernize command centers and transition to detached, external control systems capable of managing complex IT ecosystems from the outside.
While some institutions have embraced automated continuous integration/continuous development/continuous testing (CI/CD/CT) methods to make their management of those ecosystems more agile, most continue to rely on legacy methods that were developed more than a decade ago. For years, hyper-redundant Tier 1 facilities have been the foundation for managing complex day-to-day business and technology cycles — and for enabling a steady stream of new capabilities to protect business applications and CBFs.
As activity has migrated to the public cloud, the challenges to those legacy-based command centers, command-and-control systems and crisis-management processes have become more evident. Common problems that limit their effectiveness include:
Collectively, these problems manifest themselves in ways that are felt by customers, workers and operations, including:
COVID-19 has revealed two other significant problems with those legacy systems. First, the relatively static, inflexible nature of on-premise systems supporting command centers are fraught with choke points, which can stymie an institution’s ability to react to crisis situations in an agile and flexible manner. Second, those systems don’t do well at supporting IT teams when they need to work remotely.
The VCC approach represents a coordinated set of technologies, applications and processes that applies the established principles of modern-day public cloud, automation, robotics and containerization to help navigate uncertain terrain during times of business disruption. It can help overcome constraints, such as geolocation, processing capacity and network bandwidth, that are largely static and inflexible in today’s on-premise systems.
While this hybrid use of modern technologies will likely be spun up and managed by artificial intelligence (AI), it’s useful to envision a highly augmented virtual reality (VR) setup, where VR technology bridges the gap between humans and AI by providing a tangible and interactive space and structure as well as enhances communication in a virtual world.
Multiple screens could be used by crisis leads and senior executives, while senior operations leads could have a more immersive experience, taking manual control of the command center remotely. Imagine, for example, being able to slide on a pair of VR goggles or walk into an equipped augmented reality room (ARR) in your home office and see everything on your work desktop — and other people on your team — in real time.
The VCC requires successful implementation of this level of automation, which is wholly dependent on the institution having a strong foundation in modernized operations (ModOps) across the wider organization. This diagram illustrates the interplay between the VCC and what’s already in play in a typical ModOps framework:
COVID-19 has exposed shortcomings in the way legacy command centers employed by financial institutions maintain business continuity during a crisis, but in truth, change has been a long time coming.
As the use of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service and public cloud solutions drives institutions further into the public marketplace, the ability to respond with agility to ever more sophisticated cyber, technology and environmental threats will become more important.
The VCC approach, with its built-in abilities to leverage AI, VR and other capabilities, represents a paradigm shift that could help institutions manage through all sorts of threats — including pandemics — more effectively for generations to come. 
EY teams help financial services organizations realize value from cloud investments.
We have a clear view of the critical questions and new answers required for effective business continuity and resilience.
Gain access to our help with crisis management, business continuity and enterprise resilience.
COVID-19 exposed systematic shortcomings in the ability of command centers and control systems to support the business continuity efforts of financial institutions during times of crisis. The virtual command center represents a paradigm shift critical to bolstering FIs’ operational resilience, flexibility, and control over increasing business, cyber and technology risks.
EY Americas Digital and Financial Services Cloud Leader
Technology Transformation and Cloud leader. Over 25 years of experience in the financial services industry. Expertise in business-led, technology-enabled transformation. 
Managing Director, Financial Services, Ernst & Young LLP
Over 20 years of experience advising financial institutions. Leads their technology assessment, risk identification and mitigation planning for large transformations. 
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. 
EY is a global leader in assurance, consulting, strategy and transactions, and tax services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities.
This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice.
We have detected that Do Not Track/Global Privacy Control is enabled in your browser; as a result, Marketing/Targeting cookies, which are set by third parties with whom we execute marketing campaigns and allow us to provide you with content relevant to you, are automatically disabled.
