simfront.com, 
Our products package years of development into purpose-built solutions for the defense software industry.  Customized, adaptive and continually enhanced through fast working partnerships, each product delivers a unique capability.
VCCI, the Virtual Command and Control Interface, is used to support simulation based training to the military. It is the middleware that sits between 3rd party simulators and military command and control applications. In broad terms, VCCI offers data translation, transformation and coordination services between 3rd party simulators and military command and control applications. It also provides value added simulation services in its own right.
Aramis is a Military Off-The-Shelf (MOTS) After Action Review (AAR) tool that graphically represents complex simulation data captured from a military exercise. It allows the AAR analyst to quickly locate issues and specific topics from the exercise and display it in a meaningful fashion, thereby increasing the value of the event for the primary training audience. Because Aramis extracts its exercise data from NATO’s Multilateral Interoperability Protocol (MIP) Land Command and Control Information Exchange Data Model (LC2IEDM), it is simulation independent.
Paradigm is a distributed component architecture which leverages the following architectural concepts, standards and best practices:
1) A Service Oriented approach to introducing and implementing capabilities (e.g. modelling and simulation capabilities).2) An N-Tier architectural structure that maintains separation between presentation layers, business layers and resource layers.3) A two tier Hub and Spoke interaction mechanism which allows data to flow between components using both a request / response model and a publish / subscribe model.
The application has two main parts, a web app and a Local Inventory Metadata Engine (LIME). The web app provides all administration, management and user functions such as tagging and searching. The LIME is a service that is co-located with the assets. LIME monitors the assets and abstracts the changes to the assets so that decision makerscan easily determine how many times an asset has been re-used, re-purposed or improved from its original purpose. SERR is a lightweight, simple to use tool for managing assets that are worked. While SERR was originally designed for the military modelling and simulation community, the application may be extended to commercial applications under its commercial name of DART (Digital Asset and Reference Trust).
MapSpark is an Open Geo-Consortium Compliant (OGC) GIS service that will be used primarily in the Army vehicle-based systems and Synthetic Environment.
MapSpark is used to serve Geographical Information System (GIS) products to client applications.
MapSpark is a web-based server, where only one instance is required to support one site or one training event.
MapSpark has a small footprint and can also be deployed on laptops at the vehicle-level to support mobile GIS/map requirements.
REST Endpoints Status, Version, Catalog, Administration
T4 ATC is for organizations that need to train Air Traffic Control (ATC) Tower controllers to operate in highly unique ATC environments without using human role players. T4 ATC is a data driven system desktop training system that utilizes speech recognition to allow ATC trainees to independently practice pattern management and conflict resolution within the context of their own environment.
Unlike other Tower ATC desktop simulations that use generic airfields and generic procedures that require ATC trainees to adapt to the simulation, T4 ATC was designed to reflect the specifics of an aerodrome thereby allowing the trainee to directly transfer learning from the simulation to the real-world.
This results in higher trainee confidence and competence, which in turn results in greater rates of first time right performance when working with live traffic. T4 ATC was first designed and built for the Canadian Military ATC community. Six sites across Canada will take delivery of T4 ATC systems
