everbridge.com, 
Leveraging a single, unified, and integrated view for managing and responding to enterprise risk, Visual Command Center enables enterprises to gain situational awareness and risk resilience on an unprecedented scale. Through real-time threat intelligence, situational awareness, and integrated response and collaboration across the enterprise, security and risk professionals can better mitigate or eliminate the impact of critical events to their organization. These critical events can span across multiple use cases such as Life Safety & Security, Business Continuity, and Supply Chain Management.
Visual Command Center serves as the visualization and orchestration engine for the Everbridge Critical Event Management Platform streamlining the steps of Assess, Locate, Act, and Analyze, thereby enabling organizations to better manage operational risk.
Visual Command Center allows you to integrate asset and risk data into a common operating picture so that you can quickly identify critical events that may threaten life safety or cause business disruptions.
Gain a complete and shared boots-on-the-ground understanding of critical events your organization faces so that operations can effectively manage day-to-day challenges and respond to disasters when they arise.
As the situation changes, Visual Command Center allows you to collaborate and communicate with key stakeholders through integration with incident communications and mass notification.
Through better risk preparedness, organizations can be more proactive when dealing with threats.  This can help them mitigate or avoid the impact altogether.  This can result in avoidance of costs that might include shutdowns, fines, loss or damaged inventory and even loss of life.
By improving risk resilience, organizations can take on more risk which might allow them to operate in new markets or take market-share from competitors that are less prepared for managing operational risk.
Visual Command Center includes risk intelligence data from over 100 different sources to provide a comprehensive view of risk.  Some of these types include
Visual Command Center Channels are designed to deliver the right information to the right people during a critical event or when your organization needs to understand the current risk environment.  Channels can be broadcast on your command center video wall or on a mobile device or computer screen for stakeholders that are not in the command center or for organizations that have more of a “virtual” command center. Channels are organized into the following categories:
“Visual Command Center empowers the GSOC to provide a credible voice from security to our overall business development plan. Our team and its overall understanding of our operational environment are essential to ensuring the continuity of operations, the safety of employees and security of assets.”
– Bob Bernazal, Assistant Director of Security, National Oilwell Varco
“Visual Command Center dramatically increases our ability to manage risk and protect our people and operations from threats on a global basis.”
– Joe Brown, Director Global Security and Safety, VMware
“Visual Command Center is essential to maintaining our security mission, from routine day-to-day local operations to crisis management at our facilities worldwide, making a real impact on our ability to keep our people safe.”
– Mike Howard, Chief Security Officer, Microsoft Global Security
This paper peels back the training drill design process to create the best drill experience possible. You’ll learn what makes a great drill; how to decide who should be participating in the drill and who should be designing it; communication and messaging best practices.
Learn how to drive more value from your command center. Read this paper for best practices and technologies you can employ to ensure your command center team and organization are setting themselves up for success.
Know where your people are based on their static, last known, and expected location.
Triage and fix IT incidents faster with workflow automation and on-call schedule management.
Keep everyone informed before, during, and after critical events with targeted communications and workflow automation.
Request a demo or just call us at 888-366-4911
